At the corner of the Halstraat / St Janstraat we face the building with the
pillars: the garrison command. Previously it was building "guardroom"
called. Before the guard-withdrew it, stood on this spot St.
John's Chapel with back there behind the buildings of the Knights of St John
The members of this order here looked after the sick and poor.
The street name recalls the Knights of St John in the chapel began
Great Fire of 1534.

St. Janstraat once also known as the Lace Street, likely to
huydvetters the Tanners, lawyers practicing in St. Janstraat
exercised.
On your right in the St. Janstraat state Anthony of Padua Church, a
remarkably rich carried by water Church. This church was built in 1836 as
first Catholic church after the hidden church period, which officially built
might be. In 1853 it became the first bishop's church (cathedral) of the
new diocese of Breda. The seat of the Bishop of Breda returned after a
absence of 32 years at the beginning of 2001 back to Anthony's Church
which thus gained back the status of cathedral. are on the front
clearly see the three types of antique columns. From the bottom to the top:
Doric, Ionic and Corinthian columns. sets the picture above the entrance
'Religion' for. Within immediately notice the beautiful wooden pulpit
on. Herein is depicted in different panels of Antonius H. life.
A little further there are remnants or just memories of two
very important primary mansions, the House Ocrum, where until 1994 the Academy of Arts
St. Joost was located and the House Hersbeeck, now parsonage. in 1667
stayed in both houses of the British envoys, who attended the
Peace negotiations Breda. The deputies of the State Council
used the premises (no. 16) when they were on mission in the city,
but King Louis Napoleon has stayed. The bay window of this property
had a controlling function: the priest could keep an eye on who is
went to church.
The House Ocrum (no. 18) was from 1848 to 1952 Roman orphanage. That can
you still see the cobbled the 19th century facade of the
Academy Building have been made. The red color of this home (after the
restoration applied) will be a lovely gray through the years red
color of the house (made after the restoration) will of the barrel
s get a nice gray color red.