In 1969 held the Tower Festivals in Breda joy over the end of the restoration period of the Great Tower, which took 25 years. All this time, the NAC, but not only, at a tower looked that kept its beauty behind a network of scaffolding hidden.
Also between 1995 and 1997 the beauty of the Great and Our Lady's Church was held temporarily hidden behind scaffolding. In nearly three years, the church was again restored inside.
The restoration was divided into three phases. In the first phase were under other operations as spray-cleaning the exterior, repairing the jointing and the stained-glass windows and painting the inside center. In the second phase, the heating was applied; In the third phase has been restored to the rest of the church.
Research has firmly established that began in 1410 the construction of the church. In the sixteenth century the church on the south side and extended on the north side with a few chapels, the current vestry and pastern intercourse. The tower was completed in 1509; In 1468 had previously laid the first stone, so the construction period all together anyway lasted forty years. The spire burnt down in 1694. In the years after it was rebuilt, including wood which was donated by Governor King William the third of its forests. In 1702 the cock could be put on again. It is clear that the Lords of Breda, especially Nassaufs, have made a significant contribution to the genesis of the Great Church. These Lords of Breda are also buried there; Their tombs are true art historical gems. Prince William of Orange, which to earth in 1584 was murdered in Delft, had the Great Church set aside a final resting place beneath the magnificent tomb of Count Engelbert War, but his remains and those of the next Orange princes after him were now in Delft ordered. You walk from the Square back to Torenstraat and turn left. The first street on your right is the Lange Brugstraat. At the corner of the Lange Brugstraat and Torenstraat is a seventeenth century stepped gable from 1600 and the sign gives the old name ft schaekbort (for 1727 The Dambordf) of this property to. Please you look at the beautiful wall anchors.