The place where the fish market (1725) still indicates that here was formerly operated a brisk trade in marine fish, we walk to the Havermarkt by Vismarktstraat. This market is from the sixties until today, the entertainment center of Breda.
The name Havermarkt should be fixed despite that the cereals are not here; but were traded on the Main Market. However, there were landed and sold by the farmers from the perimeter vegetables, eggs and butter. In the seventeenth century a leather market was also held here.
The old names of the square rang Groenmarkt, Botermarkt and Korenmarkt which the former functions indicates something better.

Around 1490 was built this as a broadening of the Visserstraat. Who in this delightful square in the summer on a terrace grabs a beer, discovered (also without beer) very soon that this square has the best view of the main tower of the Grote Kerk.
From here you can also admire the beautiful broad base of that tower.
There is much to see in this square. On the left corner of the Havermarkt and Reigerstraat you see the home 'Arent', built around 1490. It now has around a seventeenth century stepped gable and was completely restored in 1966 and converted into a restaurant.
In front of you on the Havermarkt there are two buildings that deserve your attention. Havermarkt number 5 dates from the sixteenth century and zeventiend. "The Vogelstruys' on Havermarkt 21 is a remarkable seventeenth-century building with high, asymmetrical gable. Also this house has had over the centuries many functions and destinations. It was among other Refuge for the Sisters of Catharinadal in the seventeenth century.
The sculpture 'The Troubadour', which shines at the end of the Havermarkt, four copies are made. The other three were unveiled in Diest, Orange and Dillenburg, the twin cities of Breda in the established in 1963 Union of Orange Cities.
A little further into the Visserstraat (no. 31), on the right, is a beautiful brick building from the 17th century remains of a sixteenth-century Gothic house, called the Three Moors.